Write approaches for Yacht (#3420)
exercism/python: exercises/practice/yacht/.approaches/functions/content.md

In `score`, we call the category (as it now points to a function) passing in `dice` as an argument.

```python
def digits(num):
    return lambda dice: dice.count(num) * num

YACHT = lambda dice: 50 if len(set(dice)) ==  1 else 0
ONES = digits(1)
TWOS = digits(2)
THREES = digits(3)
FOURS = digits(4)
FIVES = digits(5)
SIXES = digits(6)
FULL_HOUSE = lambda dice: sum(dice) if len(set(dice)) == 2 and dice.count(dice[0]) in [2, 3] else 0
FOUR_OF_A_KIND = lambda dice: 4 * dice[1] if dice[0] == dice[3] or dice[1] == dice[4] else 0
LITTLE_STRAIGHT = lambda dice: 30 if sorted(dice) == [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] else 0
BIG_STRAIGHT = lambda dice: 30 if sorted(dice) == [2, 3, 4, 5, 6] else 0
CHOICE = sum

def score(dice, category):
    return category(dice)
``` 

Instead of setting each constant in `ONES` through `SIXES` to a separate function, we create a function `digits` that returns a function, using [closures][closures] transparently.

For `LITTLE_STRAIGHT` and `BIG_STRAIGHT`, we first sort the dice and then check it against the hard-coded value. 

> Another way to solve this would be to check if `sum(d) == 20 and len(set(d)) == 5` (15 in `LITTLE_STRAIGHT`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to solve this would be to check if `sum(dice) == 20 and len(set(dice)) == 5` (15 in `LITTLE_STRAIGHT`).
```

> In `CHOICE`, `lambda x: sum(x)` is shortened to just `sum`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `CHOICE`, `lambda number : sum(number)` is shortened to just `sum`.
```

> ## Approach: functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Approach: Using Lambdas with Functions
```

> Each bit of functionality for each category can be encoded in a function, and the constant set to that function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each bit of functionality for each category can be encoded in an anonymous function (otherwise known as a [`lambda`](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html?highlight=lambda#small-functions-and-the-lambda-expression)), and the constant name set to that function. 
```

> We use `lambda`s as _all_ the functions can be written in one line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In `score`, we call the category (as it's now a function) passing in `dice`.

```python
def digits(num):
    return lambda dice: dice.count(num) * num

> YACHT = lambda dice: 50 if dice.count(dice[0]) == len(dice) else 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YACHT = lambda dice: 50 if len(set(dice)) ==  1 else 0
```

ONES = digits(1)
TWOS = digits(2)
THREES = digits(3)
FOURS = digits(4)
FIVES = digits(5)
SIXES = digits(6)
FULL_HOUSE = lambda dice: sum(dice) if len(set(dice)) == 2 and dice.count(dice[0]) in [2, 3] else 0

> FOUR_OF_A_KIND = lambda dice: 4 * sorted(dice)[1] if len(set(dice)) < 3 and dice.count(dice[0]) in (1, 4, 5) else 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FOUR_OF_A_KIND = lambda dice: 4 * dice[1] if dice[0] == dice[3] or dice[1] == dice[4] else 0
```

LITTLE_STRAIGHT = lambda dice: 30 if sorted(dice) == [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] else 0
BIG_STRAIGHT = lambda dice: 30 if sorted(dice) == [2, 3, 4, 5, 6] else 0
CHOICE = sum

def score(dice, category):
    return category(dice)
```

> This is a succinct way to solve the exercise, although some one-liners get a little long. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If interested, read more on [lamdas][lambdas].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Instead of setting each constant in `ONES` through `SIXES` to a separate function, we create a function `digits` that returns a function, using [closures][closures] transparently.

For `LITTLE_STRAIGHT` and `BIG_STRAIGHT`, we first sort the dice and then check it against the hard-coded value. Another way to solve this would be to check if `sum(d) == 20 and len(set(d)) == 5` (15 in `LITTLE_STRAIGHT`).
In `CHOICE`, `lambda x: sum(x)` is shortened to just `sum`.

> The essence of the one-liners in `FULL_HOUSE` and `FOUR_OF_A_KIND` is in creating `set`s to remove the duplicates and checking their lengths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The essence of the one-liner in `FULL_HOUSE` is in creating a `se` to remove the duplicates and then checking the length.
```

> However, PEP8 doesn't recommend setting variables to `lambda`s for use as functions, so it's better practice to use `def`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a succinct way to solve the exercise, although some of the one-liners get a little long. 

However, [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) does not recommend assigning constant or variable names to `lambda` expressions, so it is a better practice to use `def`:
```

```python
def digits(num):
    return lambda dice: dice.count(num) * num

> def YACHT(dice): return 50 if dice.count(dice[0]) == len(dice) else 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def YACHT(dice): return 50 if len(set(dice)) ==  1 else 0
```

ONES = digits(1)
TWOS = digits(2)
THREES = digits(3)
FOURS = digits(4)
FIVES = digits(5)
SIXES = digits(6)
def FULL_HOUSE(dice): return sum(dice) if len(set(dice)) == 2 and dice.count(dice[0]) in [2, 3] else 0

> def FOUR_OF_A_KIND(dice): return 4 * sorted(dice)[1] if len(set(dice)) < 3 and dice.count(dice[0]) in (1, 4, 5) else 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def FOUR_OF_A_KIND(dice): return 4 * dice[1] if dice[0] == dice[3] or dice[1] == dice[4] else 0
```

def LITTLE_STRAIGHT(dice): return 30 if sorted(dice) == [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] else 0
def BIG_STRAIGHT(dice): return 30 if sorted(dice) == [2, 3, 4, 5, 6] else 0
CHOICE = sum

def score(dice, category):
    return category(dice)
```

> `FOUR_OF_A_KIND` is commonly the hardest function to encode in one line, so it's good to break it over multiple lines:
> ```python
> def four_of_a_kind(dice):
>     four_times_elements = [num for num in set(dice) if dice.count(num) >= 4]
>     return 4 * four_times_elements[0] if len(four_times_elements) > 0 else 0
> FOUR_OF_A_KIND = four_of_a_kind
> ```
> This approach can be done in one line using the [walrus operator][walrus] which exists in Python since 3.8 (done slightly differently to show the possible variations):
> ```python
> def FOUR_OF_A_KIND(dice): return four_elem[0] * 4 if (four_elem := [num for num in dice if dice.count(num) >= 4]) else 0
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I've removed this, but what's the reason for its deletion?

Reviewer: With the change to `(dice[0] == dice[3]) or (dice[1] == dice[4])` for `FOUR_OF_A_KIND`, it isn't hard to make the check one line, and it's quite unnecessary to use a walrus (_and also pretty confusing for students who don't know what a walrus is_).  So if felt like the whole set of examples was no longer necessary.

If you'd like to work the set in as alternate ways to accomplish the check -- that's fine -- but I'd still recommend eliminating the walrus in this case.

> The [ternary operator][ternary-operator] is crucial in solving the exercise using one line. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see from the examples, the [ternary operator][ternary-operator] (_or ternary form_) is crucial in solving the exercise using one liners. 
```

> As functions are being used, we can even spread code over multiple lines as it improves readability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As functions are being used, it might be a better strategy to spread the code over multiple lines to improve readability.
```

```python
# and so on
# or even, though not recommended
def YACHT(dice):
    if dice.count(dice[0]) == len(dice):
        return 50
    return 0
```

[closures]: https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/closure
[ternary-operator]: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ternary-operator-in-python

> [lambdas]: https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_lambda.asp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[lambdas]: https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html?highlight=lambda#small-functions-and-the-lambda-expression
```

> [walrus]: https://realpython.com/python-walrus-operator/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pep8]: https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/
```
